Previously on Empire...
Empire Entertainment has filed
to become a publicly
traded company.
HAKEEM: Come on, Jamal,
I need your help.
I don't care.
How long did you think that
I would just let you use me?
There's no special
girl in your life?
No one special.
For someone who's bipolar,
canceling a doctor's appointment
is life-threatening.
No!
Give it back!
I am fighting for
a comeback, too, Elle.
It is do or die
for me, too.
I'm Malcolm DeVeaux,
Empire's new head of security.
I feel safer already,
Mr. DeVeaux.
How long I got?
Three years.
Dr. Mason, how do we know
that this is gonna be safe?
It's an experimental drug.
But...
I am dead without it.
What's up, Olivia?
What are you doing here?
OLIVIA:
She wanted to meet her daddy.
♪ ♪
LUCIOUS:  This investor showcase
is make or break for us, Vernon.
I mean, nothing can go wrong.
Eric.
We need more technology.
I mean, serious holograms.
Okay, boss.
Also got word that, um,
Olivia, the baby mama?
No, his ex-wife.
Whatever you want
to call her-- anyway,
she's been down in
St. Louis since '09,
working as a hairdresser,
never got remarried...
That girl is
a problem, Lucious.
You did this to Jamal.
Now, what does she want?
She wants a father for
her kid is what she said.
Anyway, she's working
as a hairdresser.
Living with some dude who
put his hands on her,
so she got an order of
protection against him,
the police, all that
nonsense, you know?
How could you make
your son marry that girl?
How could you
force him to do that?
He was 18; a baby.
Now, she's claiming
she has his baby.
Well, how do you know
it's not his baby?
You got to have sex
to make a baby, Lucious.
Come on.
VERNON:
Either way,
we still gonna have
to deal with it.
One way or another.
Are you okay?
Yeah, I'm good.
I just got off
with MKTO's managers.
They would have to cut
the South American tour short
in order to make the showcase,
so they want a promo contest
to send out 100 of
their Brazilian fans.
No, this is
for prospective investors only.
Malcolm says it's
a huge security risk.
And no fans, no press.
We still got
a problem, Lucious.
Hi! Marvin Menchel is...
Are you okay?
We need to go over the budget
for the showcase.
The bank has only...
You can't keep
avoiding this!
ANDRE: Fantastic.
Thank you. Okay, bye.
Dad, we are on for dinner.
What's... tell me
about this guy.
Uh, Terry Schiller, late 60s,
manages one of the biggest funds
in the country.
Billions at his fingertips.
So, an early commitment
from him would mean what?
A huge boost
in the company's valuation.
You all right?
Yeah. Yeah.
Okay, okay.
We need to get him to
the showcase, Dad.
The way to appeal to him is
through family--
he's a real family guy, right?
The reason he's coming
to dinner with us tonight
is because his daughter roomed
with Rhonda at Wharton.
Well, Empire is family.
I mean, that's
what we're selling.
Family is the whole showcase.
Then like I said, Lucious,
you got a problem.
Jamal and Hakeem--
they can't stand to be
in the same room together,
let alone on the same stage.
Look... (chuckles) this beef
they got between each other,
it ain't dying.
I'll meet you at La Banana Noire.
Okay.
8:00?
Yeah.
And on top of that,
Jamal is going damn crazy.
(muffled): Why would
you make him marry
some stupid-ass backup singer?
Now we got to deal
with her baby mama...
Enough, Cookie!
(siren wailing,
EMT speaks indistinctly)
ANIKA (muffled):
Lucious, can you hear me?
(muffled voices
speaking over each other)
Lucious, come on,
we're gonna get you
to the hospital
as soon as possible.
Are you okay, Lucious?
Lucious!
MAN:
How long has he been out?
When did he last eat?
Has he lost
consciousness before?
(indistinct chatter)
Shh...
W-Watch it, watch it.
(Anika speaking,
muffled and indistinct)
(EMTs speaking,
Be careful!
All right, we're good.
What are you doing?
I'm his wife.
Ex-wife.
She's his soon-to-be ex-wife.
I just need to know
who's gonna ride with him.
Thank you.
Come on. We'll take a cab.
EMT: Here we go.
Let's go, guys.
(Lucious mutters weakly)
Michael, why are you
doing all of this?
Because this is
what you want, Jamal.
Couldn't even tell it
to my face.
I had to hear it on the radio:
"Nobody special"?
I said no special girl.
Yeah, and how do you think
that made me feel, huh?
Listening to you say that
in front of the whole world!
Well, now you do have a
special girl in your life.
A daughter.
It's better to end this
now before I have to...
walk out on you and a kid.
The kid can't be mine.
I slept with that girl once.
Well, once is all it takes.
Oh, príncipe,
you know that I love...
No, don't call me that!
You don't love me.
I love you.
But you're in love
with your music.
You don't have room
for anyone else.
(engine starts)
(door closes)
I'll never forget the first time
Sarah brought you
for Thanksgiving.
I was so nervous
I couldn't even eat.
I mean, your home
is so beautiful. Oh, my God.
Hold on, Dad.
Hold on one second
while I fill him in, okay?
Mr. Schiller, I'm afraid
I have some bad news.
My father's jet had
to make an emergency
landing in Baltimore.
One of the engines caught fire.
Now, he's okay, but he just,
he feels terrible.
He'd like to speak with you.
LUCIOUS (over phone):
Hey, Terry... sorry.
I can't tell you, man.
You know,
these damn planes.
Well, I'm glad you're okay.
And I'm delighted
to spend the evening with your
charming son
and his beautiful wife.
And I'll hear them out,
Lucious.
But frankly,
as I told Andre in advance,
the Schiller Fund
has never been drawn
to entertainment companies.
They're too volatile.
Terry, even if you decide
not to invest,
come and enjoy the concert.
I promise you
you will not see another one
like it for a while.
All right.
All right. Later.
(groans):
Oh, my...
You okay? Nurse! Nurse!
I'm here.
Thank you, sir.
Sir, please turn over.
It's all for you, bae.
Your own personal
private chef Roblé.
Enjoy it.
"Bae"? What is a "bae"?
It means "babe."
Bro...
seems like the lady's
on a completely
different date than
you are, but, uh,
if that chicken right there
doesn't turn that around,
I don't know what will.
This is for you.
What is it?
Open it.
(chuckles)
What?
You got to be joking.
You want to brand me
with your name,
but you don't want
to take me out in public?
(shuts box)
I'm not your
backstreet slut, Hakeem.
Treat me like
you treat that girl.
Why you keep
talking about Tiana?
You know she wasn't
nothing to me.
It was for record
sales and buzz.
That's what you got
to do in my position.
Just tell me...
Just tell me what you want,
and I'll do anything.
When are you performing next?
Baby, I can't.
It's a private thing
for money folks.
IPO investors
gonna be there.
How about I just put
you on the VIP list,
as a private investor?
So you mean, like, incognito?
Yeah. I mean, we keep it
on the DL this time.
Next time,
it's me and you.
Arm in arm, promise.
Come on.
(door opens)
Hi, Doctor.
Thank you for coming.
What the hell is she doing here?
Where's Dr. Mason?
I called Dr. Shahani.
I want Dr. Mason here!
Luther Mason...
(scoffs)
I can't even call him "Doctor"--
had his license revoked
two years ago for doing
to another patient
what he's now doing to you.
He's saving my life.
Sadly, the opposite is true.
Your ALT and your AST levels
are elevated,
and you're in the early stages
of liver damage.
These aren't
symptoms of ALS.
That charlatan's drugs
are doing this.
I'm getting better.
It's a breakthrough treatment
they've got in Russia.
They're so far ahead.
The FDA is
behind the curve.
Okay, well, this Russian
so-called breakthrough
is killing you faster
than your disease is,
Lucious.
It's poison.
Do you understand?
There is no cure for ALS.
Get out of here!
And anyone who tries
to tell you that there is--
and takes your money while
they're at it-- is a criminal.
Really, do you understand?
Get the hell out of here!
What's going on in there?
Are you family?
I used to be married to the man.
I gave him three sons.
That should be family enough.
I'm sorry I can't let you in.
(groaning)
Let's hear from Empire Sports Management
Division. Empire Elite Sports rules.
We rep six
first-round NBA picks.
Endorsement deals
have brought in
well over $32 million...
Impressive.
We'll lead with that.
Sports is an investor favorite,
ladies and gentlemen.
Gets the crowd
revved up and energized.
LUCIOUS:
No, we will lead with music.
Empire begins and ends
with music.
Never forget that.
This presentation's
about money, Dad.
Men like Schiller want
to hear the numbers.
No, music is
what's going to get them
to invest their millions
in this company.
Music is emotional.
Music is what Empire is about.
I want to hear the music lineup.
Lovely.
All right.
We have multiple acts
that we will be doing
for the pre-show
cocktail party.
And then Hakeem and Jamal
are gonna be opening
on the main stage.
No, no, no, no, no.
I want to open
with Elle Dallas--
she was Empire's first
platinum-selling artist
after me.
She'll have a sentimental appeal
to this money crowd.
I would love
to have Elle, Lucious,
but she's an addict.
Well, Cookie says
she's in good shape.
I trust Cookie on this.
Fine.
Okay.
♪ We got to move
these color TVs ♪
♪ We are the people
who turn illegal to legal ♪
♪ We take the good
with the evil ♪
♪ Create more sales
than the Beatles ♪
♪ And the lion's our logo,
we the sharks in the water ♪
♪ Multimedia moguls,
more offices than the Oval ♪
♪ We do everything,
came up in the game... ♪
♪ Necessary ♪ ♪ Finish it
by any means necessary ♪
♪ We everywhere-- millionaires,
billionaires, visionary ♪
♪ Back to bidness, let's expand,
think ahead to sell the brand ♪
♪ We got to install
microwave ovens... ♪
You stepping in my way, man!
Give me my damn mic!
I'm just trying to make sure
that we ain't lagging like you!
Nah, you trying to steal my spotlight.
Well, that ain't hard to do.
It's called a performance. Why don't
you learn to perform? I'm not doing it.
I'm not doing it.
Then don't do it, fool.
Shut up, both of y'all!
One night
of your little selfish lives!
Now, your brother Andre is
out there
trying to hustle up
big-time investors,
trying to make your father's
dream come true!
And he worked his ass off
for this moment
right here, right now!
Fought his way like a dog
out of the projects
for you two ingrates!
Now, can you please
come together,
for this one thing
your father needs,
so he can bring
this thing home for you!
You hear me?
I said do you hear me?
LUCIOUS:
Hakeem!
Listen to your mother!
Very wise woman.
Y'all take a minute.
What are you doing
out of bed?
It was just food poisoning.
"Food poisoning," huh?
What's really going on
with you, Lucious?
I'm fine.
That's some really
nice words you said there.
Lucious, save your
little sad songs.
I don't have
time for them.
Those boys was coming
between me and my money.
I just did
what I had to do.
(repeatedly tapping button)
(sighs)
MALCOLM: Yeah, we just
keep a eye out
for just new artists...
Mr. Malcolm!
The elevator
seems to be stuck
on 17 for, like,
the last ten minutes.
Can you help me out?
How are you?
I'm good.
How you doing?
Let's see
what I can do.
There it is.
It's moving.
I lost my mommy.
So, she just up
and left her child?
Yeah, it appears
that way.
We searched the entire building.
Jamal gonna be a daddy?
Who'd-a thunk?
Leave me with all that.
Jamal!
I'm fine. Leave me alone.
What?
I just need time to think.
No, let him go.
He needs to blow off some steam.
Where's the little girl at now?
This is your fault,
Lucious.
Why is this my fault?!
Where is she?
She's safe with Becky, sir.
Have a good evening, sir.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
♪ ♪
She ain't at her apartment.
Family hasn't
seen her, either.
Did you call her dealers?
Oh, come on, Elle, please.
Don't do this to me.
Not tonight, please.
You know, Miss Thing
gonna love this.
Elle making you look
like a fool to Lucious.
Did I ask for your opinion?
You know, you getting a little
too loose in the lips.
Did I hear my name?
Oh, thank you!
And I'm clean.
You look amazing!
I'm so sorry to scare you,
but I need to rehearse.
I've been around Empire so long,
I'm on CP time.
♪ ♪
Colored People time.
♪ Don't look at me that way ♪
♪ Like you know
how it's going to end ♪
♪ 'Cause I'm too tired
to be honest ♪
♪ And I'm too hurt to pretend ♪
♪ Darling,
some wounds will not mend ♪
♪ Ooh ♪
♪ Walk out on me,
walk out on me ♪
♪ I'll see you
for the last time ♪
♪ Walk out on me,
walk out on me ♪
♪ I'm giving you a life line ♪
♪ Just say so long ♪
♪ And then walk away ♪
♪ Say so long ♪
♪ And then walk away. ♪
This is the daddy,
this is the mommy.
They do all the walking
in the house.
Then they live
happy ever after.
Good luck with that.
Hi.
LUCIOUS: What do you
mean the chef bailed?
That's my daddy.
I know.
Then call Gordon Ramsay.
I've been talking to him
about taking over the kitchen
at Laviticus anyway.
Yeah, get it done.
You know, Becky's been taking
care of your daughter.
You might want to
thank her for that.
What makes you so sure
she's my daughter?
You were married
to her mother.
Our marriage was a sham.
You know that.
Quit being so dramatic.
I did it to try and protect you.
You-you had a promising career,
and it's the same thing you did
the other day on the radio.
It's the smart thing
to do, Jamal.
I mean, you got
a hot new single.
A lot at stake.
I respect you for that decision.
Michael left.
Yeah, I heard.
Sorry.
(scoffs)
Please.
Okay... (laughs)
I'm not sorry he's gone.
I am sorry
that you're not happy.
Eventually, you're
gonna meet somebody
who really understands
what it's like to...
be with an artist.
It's hard.
Jamal, you think
there's a possibility
that this little girl
might really be your daughter?
Yeah.
Vernon's got people
combing the street,
trying to find her mother.
In the interim,
Anika and I can take her home.
We got Juanita over there.
She'll get a kick
out of looking after her.
You're not on your own here.
(crowd cheering)
HAKEEM:
♪ Empire state of mind ♪
♪ Let's go! ♪
♪ Things are lookin' up ♪
♪ I'm ready for tonight ♪
♪ I feel good, real good ♪
♪ Can't nobody hold me down ♪
♪ I'm gonna take advantage of ♪
♪ All these flashin' lights ♪
♪ 'Cause it's the best time,
the best time for it ♪
♪ We can do it all right now ♪
♪ Can't nobody tie me down ♪
♪ If you want it, I got it ♪
♪ Tomorrow's not promised ♪
♪ Live inside the moment,
oh, no ♪
♪ Tell me what we waiting for ♪
♪ What the hell
are we waiting for? ♪
♪ We live inside the moment... ♪
Marvin Menchel, Elle Dallas.
Hi.
It's, uh...
Marvin Menchel!
it's, uh...
it-it's an honor.
Oh, you sexy beast!
Mwah!
(crowd whooping, cheering)
Hi!
Elle, you look amazing.
Anika, you look beautiful.
Wow!
Lovely yourself.
VERNON:
Take her upstairs, please.
How's she doing?
She's doing fine, I guess.
Says she wants to go to
an N.A. meeting with me, so...
Good.
We'll see about that.
BECKY: Okay, Echo Partners
invests in technology companies.
They funded the Listen Up
music sharing app.
Right over here.
Young brother.
A pleasure.
Thank you
so much for being here.
This woman is
a reporter for
The Wall Street Journal.
How are you?
Okay... (chuckles)
Hey, do you need a break?
No, no. I'm fine.
You okay?
Well, who else?
Uh, well, right
over there we have, uh...
COOKIE:
Jamal's got me drinking
this green tea stuff.
Here you go.
How you feeling?
How do you think
I'm feeling?
I'm feeling nervous,
darling.
I'm feeling nervous.
I just... I don't want
to let you down.
You won't. You won't.
Everybody's so happy
you're here, Elle.
The buzz is amazing.
You know what? I'm gonna
go check on my sons.
Be right back.
Hi, Elle.
♪ The star of the
show tonight. ♪
(chuckles)
How you doing?
Fine, thanks.
I-I know we haven't had
a chance to talk
much, but I just
wanted to take some
time to tell you
how happy I am
that you're here.
Thank you.
It's a big night for you.
Yeah, if you'd have
told me a month ago
I was gonna be performing again,
I wouldn't have believed you.
But Cookie pulled
this all together.
She did.
Ooh, Elle, can I get
a selfie with you?
Oh, great.
All right.
(phone beeps, clicks)
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Aw, shoot.
I'm sorry. I have to go.
But, girl, knock 'em dead.
Thank you so much.
(chuckles)  Mm-hmm.
♪ ♪
You're not drinking?
Nah, I ain't
drinking tonight.
I'm gonna holla
at you later, B.
Yup.
Who is that Liberian
girl over there?
Uh, Camilla Marks.
Brittanica Holdings
under the UK.
Mainly invests in...
advertising
and marketing firms.
Pleasure to have you
here, Ms. Marks.
Thank you.
Hope you're enjoying
what you're seeing today.
I expect I will.
I'm extremely
interested
in Empire's exciting
young talent roster.
Do tell.
Well, my people
tell me
your son Hakeem is very talented
and is destined
for superstardom.
(chuckles)
I hope so.
And I can see
why he's so talented.
You're gonna make me blush.
(laughs)
I have to go.
I hope to see you again.
Have a good night.
(slurring):
♪ Walk out on me ♪
♪ Say so long ♪
♪ And walk away ♪
♪ Say... so long ♪
♪ Walk out on me ♪
♪ Walk out on me... ♪
♪ See you for the last time ♪
♪ Walk out on me ♪
♪ On me... ♪
Elle!
I've been looking
for you everywhere.
I'm right here, man.
Are you okay?
(slurring unintelligibly) Oh, no, no, no.
No cigarettes.
We need our voice.
I'll be with you... Come on, we're
ready, we're ready to start.
(bumps leg, grunts)
What?
Are you high?
I feel weird,
but I didn't take anything.
Cookie, I'm fine.
I'm just a little woozy.
I vouched for you.
I'm a little woozy.
To Lucious, damn it!
I got to go tell him that
you cannot perform like this!
Wasted my damn time!
I can sing... Cookie,
I can sing your damn song!
COOKIE:
Shut up talking!
We got to start
the show without you!
(screams)
You are going to...
(squawking)
Coo-coo!
Rude ass.
Yo, man, quit playing.
JAMAL:
Sit your ass down.
Weirdo.
HAKEEM: Let me use
your spray, dawg.
Get out of here.
Lucious...
Look, I'm sorry, man,
I-I shouldn't have trusted
a junkie to stay clean.
What happened? Elle. She's
high-- she can't go on.
I knew this was gonna happen.
Yo, man!
Hey. Hey. Give me the jacket.
Give me my...
Hey, come here, I need
to talk to y'all now.
You need to get ready;
y'all up next.
You're in the star spot.
Wait, what about Elle?
Forget Elle. That's the past.
These investors are here
about the future of Empire,
and that's my sons.
Whatever beef y'all got
going on between y'all,
y'all gonna stop it.
Get out there and make those
billionaires open up their checkbooks.
COOKIE:
You heard your father.
Come on.
(snapping fingers)
Come on, shake hands.
Tonight ain't
about you, Hakeem.
My boys.
(crowd cheering)
Thank you so much
for being here.
I hope you've all had a chance
to learn a little bit
about our company,
and I hope you got a chance
to talk to some of
the very talented heads
of our many different divisions.
But right now,
before I come out here
and highlight
Empire's financial strengths,
I'm gonna ask you to put down
your Empire magazine,
you roll up your Empire jeans,
(laughter) kick back in
your Empire footwear,
have another glass
of Empire's best champagne,
and listen to
a few of the Empire's
beautifully badass,
gifted musical artists,
and let them get you
where you're supposed to be.
Ladies and gentlemen,
I want you to give it up
to two talented
and wickedly gifted young men,
who just happen to be my sons,
the future of the Empire...
Hakeem and Jamal Lyon!
(crowd cheering)
♪ I want my ♪
♪ MTV ♪
♪ ♪
♪ Consumers ♪
♪ Silver spooners ♪
(chuckles)
♪ It's nothin',
we get money for it ♪
♪ 'Mal ♪
♪ Commas and zeroes ♪
♪ That's the way we do it ♪
♪ We make it work in this ♪
♪ Economy ♪
♪ We Lyon ♪
♪ Roll in dinero ♪
♪ Pockets stay polluted ♪
♪ Money is dirty
and we don't play clean ♪
♪ We chasin' paper,
run, run, hurry, move it ♪
♪ Get out the way
if you ain't 'bout that green ♪
♪ Intensive labor,
taxes are included ♪
♪ Money is dirty
and we don't play clean ♪
♪ We got to install
microwave ovens ♪
♪ Yeah, we do ♪
♪ Custom kitchen deliveries ♪
♪ We gotta move these ♪
♪ Refrigerators ♪
♪ Yeah, we do ♪
♪ We gotta move
these color TVs... ♪
♪ We are the people
who turn illegal to legal ♪
♪ We take the good
with the evil ♪
♪ Create more sales
than the Beatles ♪
♪ And the lion's our logo ♪
♪ We're the sharks
in the water ♪
♪ Multimedia moguls,
more offices ♪
♪ Than the Oval, we do
everything ♪ ♪ Let's go ♪
♪ Came up in the game
to entertain ♪
♪ Finish it
by any means necessary ♪
♪ Finish it by any
means necessary ♪
♪ We everywhere, millionaires ♪
♪ Billionaires, visionary ♪
♪ Back to bidness,
let's expand ♪
♪ Think ahead
to sell the brand, oh! ♪
♪ We got to install
microwave ovens ♪
♪ Yeah, we do ♪
♪ Custom kitchen deliveries ♪
♪ We gotta move these
refrigerators ♪ ♪ Yeah, we do ♪
♪ We gotta move
these color TVs... ♪
(coughs, clears throat)
♪ Move dat work, move dat work ♪
♪ Commercialize, commercialize ♪
♪ Get that work, get that work ♪
♪ To advertise, to advertise ♪
♪ Make it work, make it work ♪
♪ Look, Mom, I'm on TV ♪
♪ Hi, Mom, I'm on TV ♪
♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh ♪
♪ My talent's worth a fortune ♪
♪ Five hunnit ♪
♪ They know that I'm a boss ♪
♪ I got the highest portion ♪
♪ I'm all about my bidness ♪
(coughs)
♪ All about my money ♪
♪ I'm all about my bidness ♪
♪ My talent's worth a fortune ♪
♪ Five hunnit ♪
♪ Hot damn it, I'm a boss ♪
♪ I got the highest portion ♪
(grunting)
♪ I'm all about my bidess ♪
♪ Yeah, I'm all
about my bidness... ♪
(whispers):
Cookie...
What?!
Come here!
♪ You know what it is ♪
♪ Jamal... Hakeem... ♪
(hoarsely):
I can't... I can't talk.
(crowd cheering)
(raspy grunt)
What you need, man?
Can you breathe?
(weakly): I need to go out
and give this speech.
I can't let you do that, okay?
It's not gonna happen.
ANIKA:
Look, baby, I got it.
Okay? I know the speech.
I wrote it.
I know it back to front.
I don't even need
the teleprompters, okay?
I can't believe we're even
having this discussion.
We're not having a conversation.
Dad, it should be me out there.
Something is wrong with him.
Are you okay, Lucious?
Is there a problem?
Because there's
a billion dollars
in capital waiting
out there...
Menchel, what's wrong with you?
Okay, look,
there's no problem, okay?
Lucious is a showman--
he's building up
anticipation.
Look, go out there,
fix your tie,
get ready for the show.
Sir, come this way, sir.
Just go out and do it.
(hoarsely): Look, I know
you want to help me, son.
And you have
written this thing,
but I need someone that can
go and excite these people.
Cookie...
Hmm?
I need you to go out
there and remind them
that Empire is a
family business
built for our sons.
(pants) And it is gonna
pass from one generation
to the next generation.
It's gonna stay
in the family. Please.
(panting)
Okay.
(crowd murmuring)
I'm gonna sue
that Dr. Mason.
(weakly):
It's not the drugs.
What?
It's not the drugs,
it's ALS.
It's-it's... Wait a minute,
take your time, baby.
It's not the drugs
that did this to you?
It's like a tremor with
my hands; it will...
(clears throat)
...pass.
It'll... it'll pass.
Where's Lucious?
(clears throat softly)
Ladies and gentlemen...
(sighs)
Uh...
Child, I ain't readin'...
Just read the
teleprompter, Mom.
My name is Cookie Lyon.
My ex-husband, Lucious,
and I started this company
in a little garage
in one of the worst ghettos
in West Philadelphia.
Yeah.
Some of y'all probably have
a few ex-wives, so...
(laughter)
...so you know I'm not gonna be
standing up here, telling you
all this mushy stuff
about what a fine man my ex is.
(laughter) What the
hell's she doing?
Lucious Lyon...
is a musical god.
And he's also a crazy
son of a bitch that had a dream.
(laughter)
Still has a dream--
and nobody better ever try
to get in between
Lucious and his dreams.
We were hustlers.
Hmm. Only choice we had.
But... do you know what
the first rule of hustling is?
MAN:
Supply and demand.
(laughter)
Hey, who said that?
COOKIE:
That's right, baby.
Smart man.
That's right-- you create
your own customer base.
Give them some of
that good stuff.
Make 'em want more.
You see, Lucious did that
with music.
He created... a sound.
They call it
"the Lucious Lyon sound."
You all know it,
or else you wouldn't be here.
(laughter)
Lucious's music took the street
mainstream, and made
the mainstream feel street.
Everything Lucious touches
turns to platinum,
and that's a fact.
He started out doing it
with the music.
Next, he did it
with over a dozen
profitable entertainment
and merchandise divisions.
And now...
he's gonna do it
with your money...
if you're lucky enough
and smart enough
to put it in his hands.
(scattered laughter)
(chuckles)
Lucious and I had three sons,
before he dumped me.
(laughter)
Our oldest son Andre
is the CFO of this company.
He's brilliant,
and he's gonna make every
last one of you filthy rich.
(murmurs of affirmation)
Our other two sons,
Jamal and Hakeem Lyon...
(crowd cheers)
they are living proof...
that Empire is more
than just one man's dream.
It's a dream come true
that's ready to be passed down
to the next generation,
and the next and the next.
And you all...
can be a part of it.
(crowd cheering)
Thank you.
I love you, Cookie.
(exhales)
Very impressive, Lucious.
Especially that story
that your ex-wife told.
(groans): Oh. What
really sold me though
is your family and how devoted
each and every one of them is
to the future
of this company.
Thank you so much, Terry.
Oh, baby...
Are you sure
you don't want me to cancel
my trip to Chicago?
Lana's gonna understand.
No, don't cancel.
I mean,
whatever that is,
it's gone now.
I'm, like...
I'm a hundred percent.
Look, and you need
to hammer out the new details
of that contract for her.
Don't forget,
her lawyer's gonna be
on the plane, too, okay?
All right. Well, you better
call me if something goes down.
You call me
when you get there.
Don't tell me
what to do.
I love you. (laughs):
I love you too.
Come on.
Where's she going?
She has to go up
to Chicago overnight,
take care of something
with Lana Del Rey.
Are you gonna tell me what's
going on with you, or what?
Yeah.
Lola, say good night to
Uncle Andre and Aunt Rhonda.
Aw, good night, baby.
Pretty.
(laughs): Thank you. Good night.
Don't forget about
your Uncle Hakeem.
Pretty.
Well, she got taste.
(growls) Give me that, give me that.
Stop, stop.
You're gonna
scare her. Stop.
I'm gonna
call you back.
Come here.
My brother's stupid.
Mom, here.
Oh. Okay.
I don't know
how to do all this.
Don't worry, sweetie,
he'll get the hang of it.
MALCOLM: I'll get back
to you with a proposal.
In the meantime,
I'll be standing by.
What are you two scheming up?
Oh, we're talking about
the new security system
we're having installed.
Kevlar-lined walls,
infrared cameras,
a bunker...
Place is gonna be
an impenetrable fortress.
You know, Mr. DeVeaux,
I was thinking
maybe I need to... beef up
the security at my place,
because, you know, I live alone.
Sir, I'll get those numbers
and get back to you.
You should call me
so we can set that up.
You realize...
Shut up, Lucious.
Juanita, take the
baby upstairs.
Yes, sir.
Excuse me.
Hakeem.
Have a seat.
Hold up.
Mm! My little gangsta.
(laughs)
(sighs)
I'm sick.
Wait, what-what
do you mean?
I have ALS.
Amyotrophic
Lateral Sclerosis.
It is a...
(sighs)
...an aggressive
and degenerative
neuromuscular disorder
that will eventually take away
my ability to control...
my body.
What happened tonight
is, uh...
it means the symptoms
are getting worse.
It's fatal. There's no cure.
Then why are we even doing this?
That monster show
we put on today.
That was
my legacy for you.
I mean, that's why I've been
pushing y'all so hard.
I was so proud of
y'all tonight.
Who knows this? Hmm?
Vernon,
Becky...
and, uh, Anika, of course.
Well, the IPO-- we...
we have to have a plan.
He's dying and you're
worrying about a IPO?
Yo, I should knock you...
Hakeem! Hakeem!
What's wrong with you?!
What's up?!
Andre! Andre!
Beat your little ass!
Come on!
Stop! Sit down!
He should be upset.
Come on, baby, we got to go home.
(muttering) I don't know what to do.
Andre, Andre, look at me. What?!
I don't need your help!
I'm sorry, Lucious.
It's not what
I wanted, son.
Ma...
LUCIOUS: Boys, come on,
let's talk for a minute.
Y'all have been through a lot.
But y'all are gonna get
through this, whatever happens.
Right now, I need y'all
to be strong.
We will, Dad.
Just tell us
what you need.
Your mama didn't take this well.
I need a moment with her, okay?
Y'all go on home, okay?
(shower running)
Andre.
Baby, what are you doing?
Baby?
Andre, what's wrong?
(gasping)
Baby, stop.
Look at me.
Baby... stop...
breathe...
(gasping loudly)
Stop...
(breathing slows)
Look at me.
You're gonna run
this company.
You're gonna have everything
you've ever worked for, okay?
Look at me.
Remember this?
(mellow acoustic guitar
music playing)
(chuckles softly)
You said some really,
really nice things
about me up
there tonight.
♪ Sometimes you feel insecure ♪
Kind of made
me feel good.
Especially hearing
that from you.
Why are you acting
so surprised?
Because, I don't know...
I just feel
like I owe you.
Why do you have to
owe me, Lucious?
This was my dream,
too, remember?
Yeah. But, I mean, you...
saw this... way before I did.
Ain't even had my
first single, you said
we're about to change the
music business forever...
baby.
(laughs)
And that's because
I know you.
I know what you're capable of.
(soft, trembling breath)
(crying): That's why
you got to beat this, Lucious.
You're gonna beat this thing.
Because I can't lose you again.
♪ You're so beautiful ♪
♪ You got me watching you,
like a camera do... ♪
You have me now.
Let's not lose
this moment.
May I have this
dance, my love?
♪ You wear your glasses,
you can't see ♪
♪ Girl, I love
your crooked smile ♪
♪ Your crooked smile ♪
♪ Hair ain't done, you're
makeup-free ♪ (both laugh)
♪ You'll never
go out of style... ♪
This was always
a good song.
'Cause it was about you.
♪ Way too much class,
all up inside... ♪
You always
did it for me.
♪ You should be happy
with the nappy ♪
♪ Hot damn,
have you seen them thighs... ♪
You never stopped
doing it for me.
♪ ...and collard greens ♪
♪ You call me Papi,
and I like it, wow ♪
♪ You're so beautiful ♪
♪ You got me watching you,
like a camera do ♪
♪ I'll still wait for you ♪
♪ You got me ♪
♪ Feeling all kinds of ways ♪
♪ You're so beautiful ♪
♪ You got me watching you,
like a camera do ♪
♪ I'll still wait for you ♪
(Cookie laughing)
♪ You got me ♪
♪ Feeling all kinds of ways ♪
♪ This is the kind of song ♪
♪ Make a woman love a man ♪
♪ A woman love a man ♪
♪ A woman love a man and ♪
♪ You're so beautiful ♪
♪ You got me watching you
like a camera do... ♪
Babe?
♪ I'll still wait for you ♪
♪ You got me... ♪
(Cookie laughs)
♪ You're so beautiful ♪
♪ You got me watching you
like a camera do ♪
♪ I'll still wait for you ♪
♪ You got me
feeling all kind of ways... ♪
Captioned by  Media Access
Group at WGBH  access.wgbh.org